
👉🏻 what is package.json 
package.json is basically a configuration of our npm.

As we are not using vite right now, we are starting from npm init. when we do npm init a package-lock.json file is created and it ask some ques, after completing it it will make anothe file which is pacakge.json. 

👉🏻 there is two types of dependencies we can install. one is dev dependencies and normal dependencies

when we develop any app we use dev dependencies.

👉🏻 differnce betwwen ^ and ~ 
~ indicates a major change in version => 12.2.3 => 12.2.4
^ indicates small changes in version => 12.2.4 => 13.1.1

👉🏻 pacakge-lock.json => keeps the track of excat version of all the dependencies.

👉🏻 transitive dependencies => like to make our app we need parcel/ vite/ webpack bundler as a depencencies, that parcel etc as a a project needs other dependencies, that other depencencies need some other. this is called transitive depencencies. this all files comes with node module. and one more thing every dependency has it own package.json file where that particular dependency's has own configuration file.

👉🏻 if i have package.json and package-lock.json files we can re create node module as thoes two files keeps all the depencencies record which are needed to create the app, like a database.

👉🏻 npm -> calling or installing a package
👉🏻 nxp -> executing that package

------------- about parcel ----------------

🚀 dev build
🚀 local server
🚀 HMR - hot module replacement
🚀 file watching algorithim
🚀 caching - faster build
🚀 image optimization
🚀 minified at the time of product build
🚀 bundle at the time of production
🚀 consistent hashing
🚀 code splitting
🚀 differential bundling - to support the browsers even the older one
🚀 error digonastic
🚀 error handiling
🚀 https
🚀 tree shaking - remove unused code
🚀 creates different build for dev and production



-------------- episode 3 (laying the foundation) --------------

👉🏻 we can create our own script to start a dev project or product build.
👉🏻 for buid dev we can use "start" script and in terminal we can use the command - npm run start or npm start, both are same. (start is a keyword reserved by npm)
👉🏻 for production build we can make a script named "build" and in terminal we can use the command like npm run build


👉🏻 react element is basically an object and when we render this on to the dom it becomes a html document.

👉🏻 core react -> create elemenr
👉🏻 to display that in to the browsers we need reactdom

🚀 what is jsx? -> jsx is actually a systax by which we can easily make a react element.

🚫 jsx is not html inside javascript.. nooo..

🚀 jsx is html like syntax. jsx creates a react element.

🚀 is jsx a pure javascript? - no it is not, js engine only understand js code. this jsx before going to js engine it is transpiled to js code. this work is done or taken care by parcel, vite or other bundler, it parcel no do by itself, it has another dependency/ package called Bable. Bable is a transpiler.

-------------components-------------

👉🏻 there is two way to make component, 1. class based components 2. functional component
👉🏻 what is functional component? - functional component is a normal js function which return some jsx

🚀 (<HeadingComponent />) -> this is the way to to reader a component in root, through this babel understand that this is a component.

🚀 component inside another component -> this process is component composition

🚀 apart from arrow function component if we want to make a normal function component using function keyword we have to use return key word alawys.

🚀 jsx takes care with preventing the malecious data. we can put and js/ api in our jsx using {} but js takes care of it.

🚀 there is one more cool stuff as js functional component is a function end of the day we can put that in side any other component like {ComponentName () }. this is same as <ComponentName />


---------- Episode 4 (talk is cheap, show me the code) ----------

👉🏻 if i want to put inline css in jsx we have to put it as a javascript objectß

🚀 functional component is just a normal js function and props are the normal argument, by which we can pass data to our component. this is called passing a props, and this props wrap into an object and pass in the function components parenthesis.

🚀 so, when we dynamically passing some data into a component we pass it as a props.

🚀 config driven ui -> Config Driven UI is a design pattern where the structure and content of the UI is controlled by configuration (usually JSON or objects) instead of hardcoding the UI in the component code. (get this definiation from chat gpt)